---
title: Day 0
date: "2020-08-10"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "day0"
category: "Introduction"
tags:
  - "Introduction"
  - "RFC"
  - "Web Development"
description: "Today was my first day at Recurse Center! It was an interesting to learn more about the programming community that I heard a lot about, and particularly how they have adapted to the ongoing Covid-19 Pandemic."
socialImage: "/media/42-line-bible.jpg"
---

Today was my first day at [Recurse Center](https://recurse.com)! It was an interesting to learn more about the programming community that I heard a lot about, and particularly how they have adapted to the ongoing Covid-19 Pandemic.

## What is Recurse Center (RC)?

RC describes itself as: 
> The Recurse Center is a self-directed, community-driven educational retreat for programmers based in New York City and currently operating online.

I think it is in line with a writer's retreat, but for programmers. People from different stages come to RC in order to improve their skills. Participants can commit to a Mini Batch (1 Week), a Half Batch (6 Weeks), and a Full batch (12 Weeks). I signed up for a half batch because I'm not sure of my near future plans, and RC allows you to extend to a full batch.

## Why am I going to rc after spending 2 years at ITP?
ITP was a great playground to for making technology projects, but it lacked rigor for technical projects. So while I was exposed to many different applications for technology, I wanted to understand how software/hardware works at a deeper level. I'm using my time at RC to brush up on hard skills especially for applying to jobs in the future.

## Virtual RC?
Due to COVID-19 RC is running all their batches online, but they have made interesting ways to adjust to the online medium. RC created a virtual map of their office, and use zoom as a way to mimic the IRL experience. At this point in covid, I'm pretty accustom with virtual environments, so it gets easier meeting new people over video chat. 

An advantage of doing virtual rc is that people from all over the world are able to attend. A list of my batch mates include: Vancouver, Seattle, SF, NY, London, France, India, and Vietnam.

## The first day
Today was the first day, and it was mostly on-boarding. Facilitators presented about the social rules of RC, and demoed some of the software tools that virtual rc runs on. I attended a couple of interesting sessions such as an RFC chat, where there was a discussion of the RFC which defined the SMTP email protocol. Another session was about front end development work flow.

When meeting some of my batch mates, a lot of discussion was around projects and plans for the batch. Mini retreat participants only have a week to work on a project, so many of them have projects pretty clearly defined. Other participants seem to have projects they are working on, and others seem to have subject areas that they want to work on such as becoming more versed at the front-end pipeline. 

As for me, I'm not entirely sure. I answered to many people that I want to work on making a homelab for network experimentation, but I don't really know to what end it will be. Mostly I want to work on learning the devops pipeline, but I don't know how to approach it quite yet. During the next few days I want to make more of a study plan to be more focused during my batch.
