---
title: Day 7
date: "2020-08-17"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "day07"
category: "Open Source Week"
tags:
  - "Open Source Week "
  - "OCAML"
description: "Today I learned more about maintaining open source projects and ocaml."
socialImage: "/media/42-line-bible.jpg"
---

Today I continued open source week by listening to a discussion by Elixir creator, José Valim. José gave a lot of insight in what its like to begin and maintain a growing project. He first talked about the reasons for making Elixir. As a long term Ruby developer, he found that it had problems with concurrency. While at first he tried to improve Ruby, he discovered that immutability in functional programming eliminated a lot of problems in concurrency errors. He also found the Erlang Virtual Machine to be ahead of its time. So he decided to develop Elixir, a functional programming language that runs on the EVM.

José talked extensively about growing his project. He talked about how he attended conferences and did the marketing. He talked about how he wanted to respect peoples time by making it easy to set up and get going when they tried it out. 

To develop the Elixir community, he talked about some strategies as a maintainer. First, he encouraged speedy replies. By having a fast response, it encouraged new developers to feel comfortable. He also tries to keep a model of ABC (Always Be Closing). He creates spaces for issues, support, and suggestions, but keeping a short issues list motivates him as a maintainer and contributors as well. He also suggested making use of tagging issues to help guide new developers.

I then attended a session by Stefanie Schirmer, who talked about Ocaml programming language and MirageOS. Ocaml is a functional programming language that supports both imperative and functional styles. It seems pretty complex but kind of cool. As I'm learning Haskell the language looked more familiar, and I'm beginning to understand more about FP. MirageOS is a pretty cool unikernel os. It seems like an interesting way to package up a program/OS in a similar way as a Docker container. It's written in Ocaml.

I spent the rest of the day continuing to read Learn You a Haskell, and I started a [Python curriculum](notion.so/4f0d76b4b6b54c88a4c99d665018bb66) that looks neat. I finished up by doing some Hackerrank Python problems.
