---
title: Day 1
date: "2020-08-11"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "day0"
category: "Pair Programming"
tags:
  - "Pair Programming"
description: "Today I attended a pair programming workshop and moved."
socialImage: "/media/42-line-bible.jpg"
---

Today at RC I attended a pair programming workshop where a couple of summer 2 recursers talked about common tips for pair programming. They then showed us Repl.it's collaborative environment. We then got partnered with another rc-er and tried it out.

The pairing session was to build a game of [Mastermind](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mastermind_(board_game)). My partner and I decided to use Javascript for our programming language. While talking about the rules of the game, we loosely  broke down things we needed to accomplish. We both didn't have a lot of experience using Node.js and in the console, so we ended  up having to look up documentation for a lot of things such as reading console input.

As we began fleshing out the application we would run into issues with quirks of javascript as the language didn't exactly match our mental model. For instance, we wanted to run the game in a while loop, but readline in node is async so it couldn't be in a while loop. 

We switched between navigator and driver pretty regularly, basically for every step we would swap. Small things like generating a code, and reading an input warranted switching. I liked switching often because it allowed for a more synthesized application instead of by a single mind. Also since we were so often looking up documentation, it allowed for a lot of natural pauses. 

We didn't complete the game in the 30 minute session, but it was a lot of fun and it was great to work with someone to see how they tackle problems and find solutions. View our [repl.it](https://repl.it/@Emceelamb/StupidFeistyDecagon#index.js).

After the pairing workshop, I helped my friend move their apartment into storage, so I didn't get too much done.
