---
title: Day 6
date: "2020-08-16""
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "day06"
category: "Open Source Week"
tags:
  - "Open Source Week "
  - "Haskell"
description: "Today I learned more about Open Source Software Projects. "
socialImage: "/media/42-line-bible.jpg"
---

Today I read another chapter about Haskell programming with the Functional Programming Study Group. The topic was Algebraic Data Types. In Haskell,  `_` is a wild card symbol in pattern matching. I also started to read [Learn you a haskell](http://learnyouahaskell.com/types-and-typeclasses) and learned more about Haskell's data types. Generally, I'm feeling quite behind than my peers and not sure how motivated I am to continue. I'm thinking that I might just do the readings, but not especially interested in completing the problem sets.

Afterwards, I joined a session of Open Source Week. Some people introduced their open source projects. I found it impressive that so many recursers are contributors to major open source libraries such as Python's  urllib, Qubes OS, and Matplotlib. It was really interesting to hear from maintainers and leads how excited they are about people contributing to their projects. I think that Recurse Center has a great attitude towards OSS, and many of the members are excellent about onboarding people in. An interesting feature I found on Github was that you can search for issues. I spent some time looking at issues tagged with accessibility that I hope I c an contribute to. 

I followed that session to hear in greater detail about [OpenAQ](https://openaq.org/). OpenAQ creates a database for air quality in the world by scraping government sources and storing it. The project lead introduced to us the features, how it worked, and the build pipeline. I think it would be a great way for me to get involved with a project since I'm interested  in data scraping and infrastructure.

Afterwards, I had an office hour with Mai, one of the facilitators of RC. I talked to him a little about virtual rc, and about tips for getting the most out of RC. He recommended partitioning my time to balance job stuff and learning stuff. I think my approach will be to spend the first half of RC for exploration and learning, and the second half focused on jobs.

Next back to learning haskell!

