---
title: Day 3
date: "2020-08-13"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "day03"
category: "Functional Programming"
tags:
  - "Functional Programming"
  - "Haskell"
description: "Today I joined a reading group about Haskell programming langage."
socialImage: "/media/42-line-bible.jpg"
---

Today I joined a reading group about Haskell programming language. It was the first meeting to go through UPenn's [CIS-194: Introduction to Haskell](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/%7Ecis194/spring13/lectures.html). The group plans to work through the course throughout the batch. 

As a group we tried paired reading. We each partnered up to read the first chapter and took turns reading out loud paragraphs from the book. While reading the paragraphs we would check in and talk about any unclear sections. My reading partner, Daniel, had some experience with Haskell before, so he gave a lot of good insight into the chapter.

I don't have too much experience with functional programming paradigm. I've done a little functional javascript programming, and worked through Understanding the Weird Parts of Javascript, which gave an introduction to the paradigm, but I don't regularly use it. However, it was pretty influential as I progressed through my programming journey as it helped me break out of a purely OOP approach to programming and learning to take a more functional approach which allows or cleaner looking code.

The introduction to the course gave a broad overview of the Haskell language and some of its features. TBF the syntax is very different to what I am used to. Its akin to clojure which I briefly sampled before. The last programming language I've been learning is C, and Haskell is quite different.

I think I'll try to stick with the group for a bit, but I'm on the fence with how far I will go with it though. My goal for RC is to come away with employable skills, and from what I read, Haskell is not seen often commercially. I've been wanting to learn Go, so I might stick with that? But maybe just learning Haskell and FP will be beneficial overall.

Here is a fun video that makes me want to learn haskell:
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RqvCNb7fKsg" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
