---
title: Day 2
date: "2020-08-12"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "day02"
category: "Bugs"
tags:
  - "Bugs"
  - "Linux"
  - "Tailwind"
description: "Today I revisited old computer setups and was plagued by technical problems."
socialImage: "/media/42-line-bible.jpg"
---

I only came to my apartment a handful of times since Covid quarantine started back in March. I was staying at a friend's house with my school laptop that I've been working on. My personal laptop and my desktop machine was left collecting dust until I moved back in late last night. So today I dusted them off and booted them up for the first time in quite a while and thought a lot about computers as I did so.

## A little about my computing set up
My school laptop is a very beefy ASUS ROG gaming laptop that I revived from the ITP junk shelf. I picked it up about a year ago and replaced the battery, charger, and installed Arch Linux (btw I use Arch) and it was working great, but over the past year the battery has rapidly lost health, and only holds charge for ~15 minutes. Pretty disappointing after spending about $60 for a replacement last year. Recently, it has been prone to freezing due to memory depletion. Anyways, I like the environment very much since I've been customizing my configs over the past year and it has been my primary developing machine.

Before I started leaving my ASUS at school, my personal computer was my every day machine. It's a Dell inspiron, that is pretty light and nice. It runs Windows 10 and has lot of media making programs on it such as Ableton, Max, Adobe, C4D, and etc. When I was in school and started developing, I would install a Linux OS to an external hard drive, and develop mostly on that. I kind of liked that setup, but the external hd was prone to corrupting, and damage which is not great. I had to wipe and reinstall a couple of times. I did this because I didn't have a lot of space on my SSD, and retrospectively I should still partition my SSD and use my external hd for storage instead of completely installing the OS to it.

My desktop set up was built for rendering and video production a long time ago. At the time it was pretty specced, but now the hardware is a bit dated. I've since installed  Ubuntu 18.04 and occasionally will work on it. I like it because it is still better than my laptops, and desktops are comfortable, although not portable. Over the years though my RAM has been problematic.

## Booting them
My desktop was incredibly finicky when I began on it. It booted fine, but 10 minutes in, it went kaput. My ASROCK Dr Debug kept showing crazy error codes around memory. First error 53 meaning memory can not initialize, and later error 55 no memory found. I tried reseating my RAM sticks, tried different configurations, until it finally worked. I'm only using one stick now though in the third slot. I then updated my computer, and tweaked my configs again to make it more comfortable. I hope to use it more often again.

BUT the wifi stopped working on it, which is still not yet resolved.

## Tailwind
After working on my computer for a while, I began working on an ongoing project where I am learning Tailwindd CSS. I really enjoy working with tailwind. It definitely is more fun and faster to develop than writing a lot of css. I also like the ability write styles as needed though. I'm still learning more intricacies around tailwind but hopefully later I'll write a post about tailwind css and how it differs other css frameworks like Bootstrap.

## Epilog NAND2Tetris?
After laboring on the hardware of my machine for so long I'm thinking about doing nand2tetris as a rc project. I think it would be really cool to learn more in-depth how these machines operate. I think the only concern is about how practical that endeavor would be. One of my goals for rc is to pick up employable skills, so I'm not sure how that might factor in. Something to ask around I suppose.



