---
title: Day 8
date: "2020-08-20"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "day08"
category: "Job day"
tags:
  - "Job"
  - "Portfolio"
description: "Today I spent some time working on my portfolio and job stuff."
socialImage: "/media/42-line-bible.jpg"
---

This morning I listened to Andrew Louis talk about his Memex project. Memex is a personal surveillance project, where he collects and indexes as much data as he can on his life. He has been working on this project for 15 or so years and now is planning to make the software open source so that others can also collect data on themselves.

I think his journey of making a project over 15 years is very interesting where he learned a lot throughout the years as well as adopt various new technologies, incorporating new data sources into his life/ project. Now his push to make it open source is also a new way to think about a project that is so familiar to him. 

After the talk I began to work on some life stuff. I tweaked a bit my resume and wrote a cover letter for a Junior Web Developer for Other Means, a graphic design studio based in NYC. I try to leverage my background in design as a point of differentiation. 

Then I worked on my portfolio website. I learned a little more about SEO and gridsome. I found out how to populate the [head tag](https://www.drewtown.dev/post/improve-blog-post-seo-with-gridsome-and-vue-meta/) to allow my site to be picked up by search engines. I changed the global.site.config file as well as the main.js file, which allowed for SEO on my template pages. I then added the meta information to media queries on the blog posts and project posts. After a little bit, I now see my website showing on google if I search `mark lam developer`. Search says that it takes some up to 14 days for SEO to complete take effect so I'll see what happens.

Afterwards I continued to read Learn you a haskell. I'm not extremely motivated to complete cis194 but I think learning about haskell has been fun, and I'm intrigued in more functional programming. I read a little about functional programming in Python, which I hope to take advantage of.
